three US troops have been killed and 34
injured in a drone attack on an American
base on the border between Syria and
Jordan President Biden says the strike
was carried out by militant groups
backed by Iran and that those
responsible would be held to account and
in a separate incident a British warship
the HMS Diamond shot down a drone it was
being targeted by the Drone was launched
by hthy fighters from Yemen who are also
backed by Iran our diplomatic
correspondent Paul Adams reports
the Americans say the attack happened at
a base known as Tower 22 right on the
Syrian Jordanian border it's one of many
American bases across the region there
have been dozens of drone and missile
attacks in recent months but no American
Personnel have been killed until
now Joe Biden seen here attending church
this morning was quick to point the
finger we know it was carried out by by
radical iran-backed militant groups
operating in Syria and Iraq he said it's
not necessarily um a Tipping Point into
uncontrolled escalation between the
United States and Iran but it's another
very dangerous step because as I say the
us will have to respond even more
strongly than it's done to previous
attacks carefully cultivated over years
Iran has a wide network of allies and
proxies operating in countries across
the Middle East they're all opposed to
Israel and the United States it's
sometimes called the axis of resistance
there are pro-iranian militias in
Lebanon the Palestinian territories Gaza
and the West Bank Plus Iraq and Syria
and far to the South there's also the
houthis in
Yemen over the weekend the houthis have
been launching their own attacks hitting
a tanker in the Gulf of Aiden and last
night a British warship HMS Diamond used
an air defense missile to bring down a
houthi drone with British help the US
have been hitting houthi military
targets for a couple of weeks so far the
houthis seem
undeterred they say they'll stop
attacking ships if and when there's a
ceasefire in
Gaza the problems America is dealing
with across the region aren't all about
Gaza but the war there has left the
whole Middle East a lot more dangerous
Paul Adams BBC
News Let's cross now to Washington and
speak to our correspondent Gary odonahue
President Biden has made it clear that
the US will retaliate Gary but what
might that look
like Marita there's huge pressure going
to be huge pressure on Joe Biden to
respond to this particularly now we're
in an election year one Senator one
Republican senator has already called
for direct strikes on Iran itself now
Joe Biden has said America will respond
at a time and place of its choosing and
he's been meeting with his top military
and intell Ence brass today typically in
these circumstances the Pentagon offers
a menu of options possibly ranging from
a strike on the group that launched the
Drone right through to attacks on Iran
now all this goes against the background
of sensitive talks in Paris over a
possible ceasefire in Gaza and the
American desire to stop this escalating
further there have been dozens of these
attacks on Americans throughout the
region since October and there have been
responses the problem is that this one
killed Americans and for Joe Biden that
means that public opinion and the desire
to deter Iran means that the response
this time will have to be qualitatively
different Gary thank you well Lis dueta
Chief International correspondent is
with me is this the escalation that
everyone has been fearing Le well it's
an escalation in two ways it's an
escalation in tension in the region but
also as we've been hearing from Gary a
huge ratcheting up of pressure on the US
president who is the Commander in Chief
since this uh Gaza Israel war erupted on
October the 7th the United States has
been trying to do everything possible to
avoid the enlarging and intensifying of
this confrontation most of all
Washington and Teran have avoided direct
confrontation President Biden knows that
if he and his military and intelligence
advisers do succumb to that pressure to
attack Iran directly that will set off
and even more dangerous spiral they have
many other targets to choose from there
are Iranian assets across the region
they have struck them before during this
crisis but the real problem Rita is that
they have to be not just seen to do
something they have to seen to succeed
and we've already seen that with the
attacks against the houthis in the Red
Sea it didn't stop the houthi attacks it
only intensified them and similarly this
attack this retaliation by America may
not stop the attacks all that will stop
the attacks is a ceasefire in Gaza and
that has not been on President Biden
agenda nor the Israelis but there are
talks underway as Gary Odon who
mentioned a small glimmer of hope
tonight those talks involving senior
intelligence figures from from Israel
the United States from Egypt Qatari
prime minister are being described as
positive Prime min Min Netanyahu of
Israel has said though the gaps are
significant but the talks are
constructive they will continue it is a
second stage of a exchange of Israel
hopes all of the remaining hostages
around 130 held by Hamas and other
groups in exchange for what Hamas wants
is all the prisoners in Israeli jails
all for all that's not going to happen
we understand that the one of the gaps
is around how long truce would have to
happen to have that many prisoners
released in exchange for that many
hostages there was an estimate it could
take two months and meanwhile Israel is
intensifying its attacks against Hamas
in Gaza which is causing ever growing
hardship and suffering Le thank you very
much least do set there